BeeAI
ACP  - This course is perfect for AI builders who want to easily reuse and connect multiple agents built with different frameworks in a single system

1.Build ACP-compliant agents by wrapping them in an ACP server
2.launch the server to activate the agents, and make them discoverable by ACP clients to enable easy integration within multi-agent systems.
3.Chain ACP-compliant agents in linear and hierarchical workflows; use a router agent to delegate tasks to the specialized agents.
4.Import ACP-compliant agents into a registry to make them easy to discover and share across teams.
5.Building a multi-agent system with agents shared across teams and organizations can be challenging

6.**You may need to write custom integrations each time a team updates their agent design or changes the agent’s framework

IBM Research’s BeeAI

1.The Agent Communication Protocol (ACP) is an open protocol that addresses this challenge by standardizing communication between agents.
2.Provides a unified interface through which agents can collaborate regardless of their frameworks.
3.Making it easy to replace an agent with a new version without needing to refactor the entire system.
4.you’ll learn to connect agents through ACP
5.The protocol is based on a client-server architecture
6.you host an agent built with any framework inside an ACP server
7.**You’ll build sequential and hierarchical workflows of agents hosted inside ACP servers
8.learn how to manage this workflow on the client side through a **process or another agent. 

1.Learn the underlying architecture of ACP and how it enables agents built with different frameworks to work together through a common interface.
2.Understand the lifecycle of an ACP Agent (configuration, activation, discovery, execution), and how it compares to other protocols, such as MCP (Model Context Protocol) and A2A (Agent-to-Agent).
3.Build a RAG agent with CrewAI and wrap it inside an ACP server.
4.Define an ACP Client to make calls to the ACP server you created.
5.Define another ACP server, built with Smolagents, and sequentially chain it to the RAG agent.
6.Build a hierarchical workflow using a router agent that transforms a user’s query into tasks and delegates the tasks to agents available through ACP servers.
7.Build an agent that uses MCP to access tools and ACP to communicate with other agents.
8.Import your ACP agents to the BeeAI platform, an open-source registry to discover and share agents easily
