Agentic RAG 
1) Router includes capability to request clarification for ambiguous queries
2) How pass the prompt with query with Agent - In Every call or Single Call
3) How to Manage the Memory of the Agent 
4) How to Retrieve the Response for Agentic RAG - Either by Reterival Strategy or through the Agentic CoT Approach with memory management 
5) Chunking with Metadata - How much have to give in chunk 
6) How to Manage the Session for Agent 
7) Preprocessing the Data Properly with Metadata 
8) Vector Database that support the Metadata 
9) Query should rewrite based on the prompt 
10) Summarize Agentic RAG - QA Agentic RAG 
11) Referencing the Source 
12) MCP Protocol
13) Connectors for Multiple Data Sources
14) Testing the Agentic RAG 
15) Experimenting the Agentic RAG 
16) Tool Description - for Agentic RAG 
17) Error Handling and Fallback Strategies 
18) Pydantic Object to check we receiving the Structured output from LLM 
19) How to Use the Structured Output 
20) Data Pipeline 
21) Handle edge cases explicitly
22) Actions if needed for Agents to make decisions
23) Guardrails, 
24) Responsible AI 
25) Monitoring the AI Agent 
24) Evaluating the AI Agent and Decision of AI Agent 
25) Logging 

26) Agent 1  - Rewrite Query with Selective Retrieval    Agent 2 - Reflect --- Agent 3 -- Prompt with [Respective Ouput] + [Respective Retrieval from LLM ] - Multiple Calls or Single Calls

27) How to Evaluate the Retrieved Document 


Complex PDF RAG Pipeline 
------------------------
1) Dropping relevant graphics from your context
2) Gemini 2.5 with a multimodal Embedding model like Cohere's latest Embed v4
3) Unlock vision RAG and avoid image-to-markdown conversion.
4) Combines Gemini Flash 2.5 (vision LLM) with Cohere Embed v4 (retrieval).
5) Directly retrieves & understands complex images (slides, charts, graphs, infographics).
6) Cohere Supports processing of documents up to 128,000 tokens, approximately equivalent to 200 pages, making it suitable for large-scale document analysis - adjustable embedding dimensions (e.g., 256, 512, 1024, 1536)

Cost Effective 
---------------
LlamaParse - Cost=300×0.0015=0.45 USD
Cohere     - Cost=1.5×0.47=0.705 USD


General Architecture
Build modular components
Implement robust error handling
Consider scaling requirements
Plan for monitoring and evaluation


28) how Multi Agent are working so far I created in LangGraph and CrewAI - is it waiting for other agents to complete the work , are passing the task sequentially 
    In Letta - the Multi Agent Concept is different 

29) How to Pass the Tools name to the OpenAI Function Call 
       Function Definition - Pydantic Object to create the Function Definition
    How to create the Actual Python function tool --> whith doc string to --> for LLM to understand 

30) How Manager Agent calls the other agents, by reasoning - Check the course learned crewAI, AutoGen, etc
          giving other agents as tool or how ?

31) How Async works with    - concurrently run all three agents - parallely 
async def main():
    msg = input( )
    orchestrator_output = await Runner.run(manager_agent,msg)


32) Prompt Should be build up from the layers and layers of input data 
33) Evaluation - getmaxim.ai has built a very comprehensive agent simulation and evals platform. 
34) Evaluation - Wayfound.ai 
35) Evaluation - Noveum.ai 
36) Evaluation - Instructor - https://github.com/instructor-ai/instructor - MIT License 
                 (If you’re importing an LLM API SDK, use Instructor; if you’re importing Huggingface for a self-hosted model, use Outlines.)

37) Applied LLM - https://applied-llms.org/

38) Evaluation - https://noveum.ai/en

38) MegaPrompt - Approach 
39) The specificity of task-oriented prompts means they aren't suitable for general, open-ended conversations.
    https://www.godaddy.com/resources/news/llm-from-the-trenches-10-lessons-learned-operationalizing-models-at-godaddy#h-1-sometimes-one-prompt-isn-t-enough

40) Important Techniques - https://www.godaddy.com/resources/news/llm-from-the-trenches-10-lessons-learned-operationalizing-models-at-godaddy#h-1-sometimes-one-prompt-isn-t-enough

--------------------------------------------------------------------
API Integration
----------------
Event Web API 
HTTP Web API's 

API Scaling
-----------
How to Scale API Performance in a High-Load System and Avoided CPU Overload
API - Plays a Role of Gateway that manages incoming requests from all entities 
Each API has a limited number of requests it can process 
When API is overloaded, your Whole System essentially stops, as it can't output any results without 
processing requests first 

USER (Millions of users)
         ↓
      Internet
         ↓
    [Load Balancer]
         ↓
 ┌─────────────┬─────────────┬─────────────┐
 │             │             │             │
[Backend Server 1] [Backend Server 2] [Backend Server 3] ... (Auto-scaled instances)
 (Async API App)    (Async API App)    (Async API App)
         ↓             ↓               ↓
 ┌─────────────┬─────────────┬─────────────┐
 │             │             │             │
[Cache Layer] [Database (Read Replica)] [External Services]
 (Redis Memcachedetc.)  (Async ORM, Pooling)      (if needed)

Redis / Memcached for caching frequent results
CDN (like Cloudflare) for caching static API responses

1.Scaling a highly loaded API that processes resource-intensive requests, 
2.Also show how to calculate the future load on the system and choose the most suitable instances 
  for scaling, as well as our scaling Scheme and debugging activities.
2. Look for a balance system performace and required computing resources.
Vertical Scaling[up or down] - more VM's  vs Horizontal Scaling [in or out] - several endpoints
--------------------------------------
Horizontal Scaling - enhance your system with additional physical computing power. create Sharded database 
                     deploy more nodes. 


What type of scaling should you choose for your system?
How can you calculate the future load on your system?
How can you choose instances for scaling?
How can you design and debug a cloud scaling system?

Eg:Each request takes between 30 seconds and one minute and up to 20% of server CPU power.
An excessive number of requests should not cause the machine to freeze and make it inoperable.

Be able to process up to five million requests per day
Withstand a heavy bandwidth load in order to communicate with third-party services

REST API
SQS
Lambda
DynamoDB

Application Load Balancer
EC2
DynamoDB

Application Load Balancer
EC2
DynamoDB

4 CPUs, 8 GB RAM - instance can process 60 to 120 requests per minute, or 2 to 3 requests per second, before crashing.


Wrote a simple application prototype with unchangeable logic.
Launched the easiest and cheapest instance on AWS and loaded it until it failed.
Saw how many queries this instance completed and which criteria made it fail.
Launched a more powerful instance and tried to crash it with our prototype.

We used JMeter to find the maximum load on AWS instances until we found the most suitable ratio of instance parameters and time to crash

1.Failure of one API request can affect other requests.
2.When one request overloaded a browser, it couldn’t process subsequent requests. To fix this, we isolated each process and limited the load by creating internal requests and a request queue for each server.
3.The first step was to create a worker that would run our program independently so that in case of errors, we would lose only one request instead of all operations. 
4.This worker takes one task at a time from the queue after completing the previous one. In our case, the CPU load per worker was 7%.
5.Next, we increased the number of workers until the CPU was 80% loaded. This way, we got an isolated process with a predictable load and created a number of parallel tasks for the instance to process.
6.Our API keeps the connection active until it gets a response. Under a heavy load, it took our system three to five minutes to respond, and during this time the application load balancer ended the connection. We increased the maximum connection time for the API to three to four minutes. During this time, we can create a new instance if needed.  
7.However, this method of scaling has several disadvantages you need to be aware of. The request queue inside the instance helps to manage API performance, but it shouldn’t accumulate more requests than the instance can process within three minutes. Since the API connection lasts for three to four minutes, the API won’t get responses to requests that take longer. That’s why we need to launch a new instance during this time.

Developing Robust API's 
-----------------------
1. Designing High-Quality APIs,
KISS - Keep It Simple, Stupid.
2.Use Standard, concrete and shared terms that are familiar to most people 
3.Allow application developers to do things in only one way, rather than offering multiple confusing options.
4.Design the API with the needs of the client in mind
5.Medium Grained Resources - You Should use medium grained, not fine nor coarse. 
  Resources shouldn't be nested more than two level deep 
6. Snake_Case or CamelCase for attributes and parameters. 
7. for using more than one word in URL - spinal-case 
8. Versioning mandatory in the URL at the highest scope (major versions). 
9. You may support at most two versions at the same time (Native apps need a longer cycle)

Collection Resource: /employees
Instance Resources: /employees/11


Django Views
------------
Function-Based Views (FBV)
    ↓
Class-Based Views (CBV)
    ↓
Generic Class-Based Views (GCBV) → Special ready-made
    ↓
ViewSets → For APIs (Django REST Framework)


Interview Question
------------------
1.What is Whitelist - Whitelisting in APIs is a security practice used to control access to an API by explicitly allowing only certain clients, 
                      IP addresses, domains, or applications to use it
This is common for internal APIs or services accessed only from a specific office or server.
IP addresses
API keys or tokens
Domains or referrers
User agents
Applications or client IDs
-Limitations of Whitelisting
IP spoofing (though rare if HTTPS is used) can be a risk if relying only on IP addresses.
Not suitable for mobile apps or dynamic IPs.
Managing large or changing whitelists can become complex

2. How Whitelist Implemented - 
Firewall or API Gateway level (e.g., AWS API Gateway, Apigee, NGINX)
Within application logic (e.g., checking IP or key manually)
Cloud IAM policies (e.g., Google Cloud IAM, AWS IAM roles)

3.Different Whitelisting 
IP Address Whitelisting
API Key Whitelisting - Developer should register for whitelisting 
Domain/Origin Whitelisting
OAuth Client Whitelisting

4.IP Spoofing
IP spoofing occurs when a hacker modifies the packet headers to insert a fake (spoofed) source IP address.
eg. of of the example of attacking[Session Hijacking] - Rare, but spoofing can be used to hijack a TCP session if sequence numbers are predictable.
Authentication mechanisms: Don't rely on IP alone—use tokens, keys, or certificates.


5.Rate Limiting - Only allow approved users to consume API resources, which protects performance
These can be global (per user/IP) or granular (per endpoint, per API key, per method, etc.)
429 Too Many Requests
system keeps track of requests per client, and once a client exceeds their quota, the system can
-Reject the request with an HTTP status (e.g., 429 Too Many Requests)
-Queue the request (in some APIs)
-Temporarily block the client (a "cooldown" or "timeout")
-Apply backoff logic (e.g., wait before retrying)

Rate Limiting Algorithms
 Token Bucket
Tokens are added to a “bucket” at a fixed rate
Each request consumes a token.
If no tokens are left → request is denied.

Leaky Bucket
Similar to token bucket but allows tokens to “leak” at a constant rate.
Smoothens traffic spikes over time.

Fixed Window
Counts requests in a fixed time window (e.g., per minute).
Simple but has boundary issues (spike at end/start of window).

 Sliding Window
Improves on fixed window by using rolling time periods
More accurate in evenly enforcing limits

How to implement the Rate Limit 
API Gateways (e.g., AWS API Gateway, NGINX, Kong)
Backend servers or middleware
Web Application Firewalls (WAF)
CDNs (e.g., Cloudflare)


6.Azure API Management (APIM) [You need a centralized API management layer across different backends
                               You're integrating with Azure services]
Centralized API gateway for managing REST and SOAP APIs
Rate limiting, quotas, throttling via policies
Supports OpenAPI, WSDL, Swagger, and GraphQL (preview)
Backend integration with Azure Functions, App Services, Logic Apps, etc
Built-in analytics, logging, and monitoring
Security via OAuth2, JWT validation, IP filtering, and more
Supports multi-region deployments and versioning

7.Different API 
REST, HTTP, WebSocket
REST, SOAP, GraphQL

8.Authentication - Think of it as a login check.
  -username and password
  -Using Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)
  -Presenting a valid API key or token
  -Signing in with Google, Azure AD, or GitHub(OAuth/OpenID)


9.Authorization - Authorization is the process of checking what actions an authenticated user is allowed to perform
Think of it as permission checking
  -An API token may only allow read access to data, not write

10.Authentication
Authentication methods:
In Web/API Context
  -Basic Auth
  -OAuth2 / OpenID Connect
  -JWT (JSON Web Tokens)
  -API Keys
  -SAML 
  - OpenID Connect, OAuth 2.0, or SAML.

11.Oauth ==== -  - - - - - Client redirects user to Authorization Server
App opens browser: https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/v2/auth?...
Includes client_id, scope, and redirect_uri
User logs in & approves access
Google shows login + consent screen
User clicks “Allow”
Authorization Server redirects back to Client
Sends an Authorization Code to the app via redirect_uri
Client exchanges Code for Access Token
App sends code + secret to Authorization Server
Server returns an Access Token (and optionally a Refresh Token)
Client uses Access Token to access Resource
App calls the API with the token:
Authorization: Bearer ACCESS_TOKEN

12. Middleware Task in Django
Modify request before view	Add user data, parse headers, attach tokens
Process response after view	Add CORS headers, compress response
Handle exceptions globally	Catch and log errors or show error pages
Control access	Block IPs, enforce authentication
Performance measurement	Log timing or request metrics

13. Central Configuration Hub - central configuration hub - Settings.py
   How should your app behave 
   database setup, installed apps, middleware, templates, and security settings.
   Defines where static files (CSS, JS) and uploaded media files live

Python Question
14. Tuple - Immutability Enables Optimization
    Allocate less memory (no need for over-allocation like lists)
    compact, contiguous memory blocks → which boosts CPU cache performance
Memory layout optimization
Better cache locality
Precomputed metadata (like size and type)

15. List - Allocate extra space ("overhead")
    Store pointers to objects rather than the objects directly

16. Generators - 
           memory-efficient, lazy iteration, especially over large datasets or streams
    A generator is a special type of iterator that generates values on the fly instead of storing them all in memory at once.
    Instead of using return, it uses the yield keyword to produce a value, pause execution, and resume later
✅ Memory Efficient	Doesn’t load all data in memory – great for big data, files, or streams
✅ Lazy Evaluation	Values are computed only when needed
✅ Clean Syntax	Easier to read and write than manually implementing iterators
✅ Pause & Resume	Execution state is saved between yields

def count_num(maxs):
    count = 1 
    while count <= maxs:
        yield count
        count +=  1 
gen = count_num(3)
print(next(gen))
print(next(gen))
print(next(gen))
print(next(gen))

17.nums = [1, 2, 3]        # This is an iterable
it = iter(nums)         # This is now an iterator
print(next(it))

18.DeepCopy and ShallowCopy 
Think of shallow copy as cloning the outer shell but sharing the same inner data, while deep copy clones everything inside too.

19.Thread Execution
   Embedding Size 
   How to Deploy the OpenSource model in Azure AI 
   How to Build the Cloud Native Application
   How to Use the Azure Logic App and Azure Function App
   How to Use the Azure Web App
   Little Bit Knowledge about the VNet, Firewall, Network 
   Reduce function 


20 Decorator - behavior to objects or functions dynamically without modifying their structure

21 Abstract Method - from abc import ABC, abstractmethod

22 Access modifiers such as public, private, and protected.
   Public (+): Attributes and methods are accessible from outside the class
   Private (-): Attributes and methods are only accessible within the class. They are denoted by a double underscore __.
   Protected (#): Attributes and methods are accessible within the class and its subclasses. They are denoted by a single underscore _.

23 import requests

# Your Azure endpoint URL
azure_endpoint_url = "https://your-azure-endpoint.azurewebsites.net/predict"

# Sample data to be sent for prediction
data = {"feature1": 10, "feature2": 5, "feature3": 7}

# Send a POST request to the Azure endpoint with the data
response = requests.post(azure_endpoint_url, json=data)

# Check if the request was successful (HTTP status code 200)
if response.status_code == 200:
    # Parse the predictions from the response
    predictions = response.json()
    print("Predictions:", predictions)
else:
    print("Error:", response.status_code, response.text)


24 Creation of Docker Image 
# Base image
FROM python:3.9
# Set the working directory
WORKDIR /app
# Copy application files
COPY . /app
# Install dependencies
RUN pip install -r requirements.txt
# Expose a port (for web apps)
EXPOSE 5000
# Define the default command to run
CMD ["python", "app.py"]

docker build -t my-python-app .
docker run -p 5000:5000 my-python-app
docker tag my-python-app mydockerhubusername/my-python-app
docker push mydockerhubusername/my-python-app
docker exec -it my-container /bin/bash

25. Azure Functions = Azure Functions or Logic Apps	Automates document processing and retrieval workflows.

26. Azure Logic Apps - Azure Logic Apps is a serverless workflow integration platform. 

27. Azure API Management - 

28. 3072 dimensions - Text-embedding-3-large
29. 1536 dimensions - Text-embedding-3-small
30 - 512 dimensions - 


CRUL 
-----
curl -X POST https://api.example.com/login -d "username=admin&password=1234"
curl -X POST https://api.example.com/login \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-d '{"username": "admin", "password": "1234"}'
curl -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN_HERE" https://api.example.com/secure-data


RAG And AI Agents Notebooks
---------------------------
https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1RdkYOTpx41WNLCA8BJoh3egQRMX8fpJZ?usp=sharing#scrollTo=FL8y37hhnGWn

UseCase for our Project Architecture 
----------------------------
1) Data Ingestion Pipeline - Azure Functions or Logic Apps	Automates document processing and retrieval workflows.
1) CRM Data - Connecting other API and getting the DATA.  - GET Method 
2)

AI Interview 
------------
https://www.interview.micro1.ai/start/micro1/?candidate=8817e0dd-2947-4078-a7b3-8c038b95415d&ping=ok

AI Website 
----------
https://bolt.new/~/sb1-mp4hj8v2 - Quick Protyping 
https://designwithai.substack.com/p/i-ran-the-same-prompt-through-three-ai-prototyping-tools - Prototyping website 
https://adaptive.ai/ - Adaptive AI 

Common Doubts
-------------
1) MessagePlaceholder in Langchain - AgentsSracthPad
2) Azure DevOps
3) Azure Cosmos DB 
4) Azure AI Foundry Services - Project Creation 
5) How compute used in Azure Logic Apps, and How Compute used in Azure Data Factory 


What to Learn Next
------------------
Event Driven Architecture 
Solution Architecture for GenAI - All Azure Service 

Research Papers
---------------
SQL-PaLM: Improved Large Language ModelAdaptation for Text-to-SQL


********** I'm Going to Create the Project and Sell the AI Agent ***********
Quantum Revolution 
------------------


Today's Learning
----------------
Azure VNET - Not all Azure services run inside an Azure Virtual Network (VNet) by default
           - Some services are publicly accessible over the internet, while others can be integrated into a VNet for security and private access.

These services can be deployed inside a VNet and accessed securely:
Virtual Machines (VMs)
Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
✅ Azure Virtual Machines Scale Sets
✅ Azure App Service (with VNet integration)
✅ Azure SQL Managed Instance
✅ Azure Synapse Analytics (Dedicated Pools)
✅ Azure Firewall, Azure VPN Gateway
These services can communicate privately using private IPs inside a VNet.
They can also use Network Security Groups (NSGs) to control access.

2. Services That Are Public by Default (Can Use Private Link)
These services are publicly accessible, but can be made private using Azure Private Link or VNet integration:
✅ Azure Storage (Blob, Queue, Table, File)
✅ Azure SQL Database (PaaS)
✅ Azure AI Services (OpenAI, AI Search, etc.)
✅ Azure Functions
✅ Azure App Services (Web Apps, Logic Apps)
✅ Azure Key Vault
By default, these services are publicly exposed over the internet.
Private Link allows them to be accessed privately from a VNet.

How to Ensure Services Are Private?
Use Private Link to restrict access to Azure Storage, SQL, AI services, etc.
Deploy resources inside a VNet when possible.
Use VNet Peering to connect different VNets securely.
Enable Service Endpoints to allow VNet traffic to reach public services securely.

What Does "Service Running Inside a Virtual Network" Mean?
When a service is running inside an Azure Virtual Network (VNet), it means:
✔️ The service is isolated from the public internet and can be accessed only within the VNet or through a private connection.
✔️ The service uses private IP addresses inside the VNet.
✔️ You can control access using Network Security Groups (NSGs), firewalls, and routing rules.

1. Virtual Machines (VMs)
VMs are deployed inside a VNet subnet with private IPs.
They can communicate securely with other services in the same VNet.
Public access is possible only if you configure a Public IP or VPN connection.

2. Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) (Private Cluster)
When deployed with a private cluster, AKS nodes and services run inside the VNet.
No direct public access; only accessible via Azure VPN, ExpressRoute, or Private Link.
3. Azure SQL Managed Instance
Runs inside a VNet (unlike Azure SQL Database, which is public by default).
Can connect securely with VMs, AKS, or other resources in the same VNet.
4. Azure Synapse Analytics (Dedicated SQL Pool)
Can be deployed inside a VNet for private access.
Used in data pipelines where private networking is required.
5. Azure App Service (Web Apps) with VNet Integration
Normally public, but can be integrated with a VNet to access internal services securely.

How to Connect Services Inside a VNet?
Private IPs: Services communicate within the VNet using private IP addresses.
Private Link: Allows services like Azure Storage, Key Vault, and SQL Database to be privately accessible.
VNet Peering: Connects multiple VNets securely.
VPN Gateway / ExpressRoute: Connects on-premises networks to Azure VNets.




Azure Functions
https://myfunction.azurewebsites.net - Public Endpoint
It can access public Azure services (like Azure Storage, SQL Database) over the internet.
****
Azure Functions can be configured to access private resources in a VNet.
This is done using VNet Integration (for outbound traffic) or Private Endpoints (for fully private access).
------
Cold Start - is invoked after being idle for a period of time
Azure needs to allocate compute resources and initialize the function before execution.
Optimize Startup Time – Reduce dependencies and initialization logic in your function.
Use Durable Functions – Helps avoid cold start delays in long-running processes.
Warm Start
Happens when a function was recently executed, and its compute resources are still available.
Hot Start
The function or service is continuously running and ready to execute instantly
Standby Start
The cloud provider keeps some instances running but in a standby state to reduce cold start times.

---------
3️⃣ Auto-Scaling
✅ Azure Functions automatically scales based on demand.
✅ If traffic increases, more function instances spin up automatically.
✅ If traffic decreases, Azure scales back to zero, saving costs.
4️⃣ Event-Driven (Triggers & Bindings)
✅ Supports multiple triggers (e.g., HTTP requests, message queues, storage events).
✅ Works well with Azure services like Blob Storage, Cosmos DB, and Event Grid.
✅ Example: Run a function when a new file is uploaded to Azure Blob Storage.
6️⃣ Easy Integration with Azure Services
✅ Seamless integration with Azure Storage, AI services, databases, and IoT.
✅ Works with Azure Logic Apps, APIs, and microservices.

Examples Azure Function Usage
🔹 Automate Background Jobs – E.g., processing logs, resizing images.
🔹 Trigger-Based Processing – E.g., process messages from a queue, update a database.
🔹 API Backend – E.g., lightweight APIs without managing a full server.
🔹 Data Processing & ETL – E.g., transform data before storing it in a database.
🔹 IoT Data Processing – E.g., analyze sensor data in real time.

-------
Function.json file 
In Azure Functions, the function.json file is a configuration file that defines the bindings and triggers for a specific function. It helps Azure understand:
How the function is triggered
What inputs the function requires
What outputs the function produces

Azure Functions follow an event-driven architecture, where functions are executed in response to specific triggers or events. The function.json file acts as a declaration file that tells Azure how the function interacts with other services.

Property	Description
bindings	Defines input and output bindings.
disabled	Enables or disables the function.
scriptFile	Specifies the main function code file (for JavaScript, Python, etc.).
entryPoint	Specifies the method name to execute (for C# and Java).

{
  "bindings": [
    {
      "type": "httpTrigger",
      "direction": "in",
      "name": "req",
      "methods": ["get", "post"],
      "authLevel": "function"
    },
    {
      "type": "blob",
      "direction": "out",
      "name": "outputBlob",
      "path": "mycontainer/{rand-guid}",
      "connection": "AzureWebJobsStorage"
    }
  ],
  "disabled": false
}

/MyFunctionFolder/
  ├── function.json
  └── __init__.py (for Python)
  └── index.js (for Node.js)

The function.json file acts as the blueprint of your Azure Function, linking it with external services and defining how data flows in and out.

1.for Data Processing, 
    System Integrations
    Building Simple API's and microservices 

2.Functional Difference Between Azure Functions
                              Azure Logic Apps
                              WebJobs

-Triggers have associated data, which is often provided as the payload of the function.
-bindings might be connected as input bindings, output bindings, or both
-Data from bindings is provided to the function as parameters
-When you develop your functions locally, you need to take trigger and binding behaviors into consideration
-For Non-HTTP Trigger - The easiest way to test bindings during local development is to use connection strings that target live Azure services.
-You can target live services by adding the appropriate connection string settings in the Values array in the local.settings.json file
-For storage-based triggers, you can use the local Azurite emulator when testing functions with Azure Storage bindings (Queue Storage, Blob Storage, and Table Storage)
     without having to connect to remote storage services
-You can manually run non-HTTP trigger functions by using special administrator endpoints
Language	Configure triggers and bindings by...
C# class library	decorating methods and parameters with C# attributes
Java	decorating methods and parameters with Java annotations
JavaScript/PowerShell/Python/TypeScript	updating function.json schema
***As a security best practice, Azure Functions takes advantage of the application settings functionality of Azure App Service***
-to help you more securely store strings, keys, and other tokens required to connect to other services
-Application settings in Azure are stored encrypted and accessed at runtime by your app as environment variable name value pairs.
Azure Files doesn't support using managed identity when accessing the file share

Azure Logic Apps
-----------------
Azure Logic Apps is a serverless workflow integration platform. 
Automate business processes with integration workflows in Azure Logic Apps
1,000+ prebuilt connectors
connectors, triggers, and actions work together
Azure Web Apps 
Azure DevOps - How to Use the container Instance - Kubernetes Service  
Azure AI Apps - How to Depoly the AI Model 
Azure CI/CD Pipelines 
Azure Authen
      Managed Identity - feature of Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) - is a service principal 
             System Assigned 
             User Assigned 
      Using Entra ID to authenticate client apps calling APIs
      Web/mobile apps can authenticate users via Entra ID using OpenID Connect, OAuth 2.0, or SAML.
      SSO and MFA for SaaS apps like Salesforce, ServiceNow



Quantum 
https://iqti.iisc.ac.in/academics/

Cosmos DB
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/paths/integrate-azure-cosmos-db-sql-api-azure-services/
https://microsoftlearning.github.io/dp-420-cosmos-db-dev/gen-ai/python/instructions/07-04-implement-rag-with-langchain.html
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/paths/execute-queries-azure-cosmos-db-sql-api/
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/paths/integrate-azure-cosmos-db-sql-api-azure-services/
https://colab.research.google.com/github/run-llama/llama_index/blob/main/docs/docs/examples/vector_stores/AzureCosmosDBMongoDBvCoreDemo.ipynb - Notebook Implementation
https://python.langchain.com/docs/integrations/vectorstores/azure_cosmos_db/
https://github.com/microsoft/AzureDataRetrievalAugmentedGenerationSamples/blob/main/Python/CosmosDB-MongoDB-vCore/CosmosDB-MongoDB-vCore_AzureOpenAI_Tutorial.ipynb
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/nosql/vector-search - Vector Search Indexing Policies 
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/index-policy#vector-indexes
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/vector-database
Tracing the AI Application - https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-foundry/concepts/trace
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-foundry/how-to/develop/get-started-projects-vs-code
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-foundry/how-to/develop/ai-template-get-started#start-with-a-sample-application
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-foundry/tutorials/copilot-sdk-evaluate - Custom Chat application with AI Foundry 
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-foundry/ - Learning Material 
https://github.com/azure-ai-foundry/foundry-samples/tree/main/use-cases/agents/setup/basic-agent-setup-with-workarounds
https://github.com/microsoft/promptflow/tree/main/examples/flows/chat/chat-math-variant

Cost Estimation
https://cohere.com/pricing
https://cohere.com/llmu

Cook Book
https://docs.cohere.com/v2/page/aya-vision-intro#question-answering



Tomorrow's Learning Plan 
------------------------
Agentic AI Memory 
Azure Services - Diffiently DevOps 
Azure Service Bus 
Quantum Continue 
Find the Resource for Document Filling 
Agentic AI Course from Berkely RDI
-----
Azure DevOps - Completely 
How to Create the Resources for Azure for Development and Production
Low Level Design Architect + Zone Level Scaling 
DevOps Architect - To Devlop and Test and Staging and Prod 




Full Prompt for Solution Architect Diagram 
✅ Full Prompt: Assist & Teach Enterprise-Level Solution Architecture Design (Generative AI on Azure)
You are a Senior Azure Solution Architect. Your role is to assist and teach me step-by-step how to design and create an Enterprise-Level Solution Architecture Diagram for a Generative AI-based application hosted on Microsoft Azure.
The key requirements are:
The solution must be fully cloud-native using Azure services.
For data preprocessing only, we must use an external third-party service, which must be integrated securely and efficiently.
Your responsibilities:
Ask me a series of structured questions to collect the complete application scenario, including:
Business objectives
User personas and usage patterns
Data flow
Security and compliance needs
AI model interaction and scale
Once the scenario is defined, teach me how to:
Build the architecture layer by layer (frontend, backend, AI model hosting, data ingestion, external preprocessing, storage, security, observability, governance).
Choose the right Azure services for each component, with justifications.
Identify integration points with external systems.
Represent the final design in a professional-grade architecture diagram.
Guide me in Azure best practices, including cost management, scalability, and enterprise security.
Your tone should be professional and educational, as if mentoring a cloud architect at an enterprise level.
Begin by asking me for the complete application scenario before proceeding with architecture guidance.

---------------------------
You are a Senior Azure Solution Architect. Your role is to assist and teach me step-by-step how to design and create an Enterprise-Level Solution Architecture Diagram for a Generative AI-based application hosted on Microsoft Azure.

The key requirements are:
- The solution must be fully cloud-native using Azure services.
- For data preprocessing only, we must use an external third-party service, which must be integrated securely and efficiently.

Your responsibilities:
- Ask me a series of structured questions to collect the complete application scenario, including:
  - Business objectives
  - User personas and usage patterns
  - Data flow
  - Security and compliance needs
  - AI model interaction and scale
- Once the scenario is defined, teach me how to:
  - Build the architecture layer by layer (frontend, backend, AI model hosting, data ingestion, external preprocessing, storage, security, observability, governance).
  - Choose the right Azure services for each component, with justifications.
  - Identify integration points with external systems.
  - Represent the final design in a professional-grade architecture diagram.
- Guide me in Azure best practices, including cost management, scalability, and enterprise security.

Your tone should be professional and educational, as if mentoring a cloud architect at an enterprise level.

Begin by asking me for the complete application scenario before proceeding with architecture guidance.


📌 A. Business Objectives
What is the primary purpose of this Generative AI application (e.g., document summarization, chat assistant, code generation, financial analysis, etc.)?
    Primary Purpose of this Generative AI Application is to Automate the Credit Application Loan Processing for Banks to issue the Credit to the Institute Brrower
    1) So Application have Multiple Sections to process this Automation
            Connecting to Different API to get the Data Sources 
            WebScraping the Websites to get the Data Summary with GenAI Capabilities 
            Uploading Different Documents to do the analysis - Financial Analysis, Management Analysis, Security Analysis, Risk Analysis, SWOT Analysis, Justification of the Overall Process - With GenAI Capabilites [Agentic RAG]
            Finally Credit Application should be filled with what are the analysis conducted and what are the fields asked in the Credit Application, those fields should be filled automatically and downloadable word document

What measurable business value should this solution deliver (e.g., reduce processing time by 50%, automate 80% of support queries, etc.)?
    Measurable Business Value reduce the manual processing time - How currently the manual process doing by Relationship Manager to analysis the Loan Application 
                    Reduce the Processing time by 80%

👥 B. User Personas and Usage Patterns
Who are the end users (e.g., internal employees, customers, partners)?
    Internal Employees, - Relationship Manager, other higher official authority in the bank related to the position for Credit Loan 

How many users are expected (initially and at scale)?
     Think like 200 - Relationship Manager 

What is the expected usage pattern (e.g., daily queries per user, real-time vs. batch, peak load hours)?
     Real-time 

🔄 C. Data Flow and Sources
What types of data will be ingested (e.g., documents, structured data, web scraping, APIs)?
      Documents
      Web Scraping
      API's 

Where does this data originate (e.g., CRM, SharePoint, public APIs)?
      CRM 
      Sharepoint, 
      User will upload the Financial Related Documents, Security Analysis Related Document, Risk Analysis Related Document

What preprocessing tasks are offloaded to the third-party service? What format is returned?
      Data Preprocessing offloaded to LlamaParse - to Parse the PDF documents into preprocessed markdown format document, 
      Format of the data returned is Llamaparse Document 

🔐 D. Security and Compliance
Are there specific compliance requirements (e.g., GDPR, HIPAA, ISO 27001)?
       Yes all compliance requirements are important

What level of data sensitivity are you dealing with (e.g., PII, financial data)?
          Financial Data
          PII

Is role-based access control (RBAC), conditional access, or data encryption at rest/in-transit required?
         RBAC is required 
         Data Encryption is Required in Rest/in-transit required

🧠 E. AI Model Usage
What kind of LLM/GenAI model will you use (e.g., OpenAI via Azure OpenAI, fine-tuned model on Azure ML)?
         OpenAI via Azure OpenAI 
         Cohere via Azure OpenAI
         

Is the model hosted or accessed as a service?
        Models are Accessed as a Service
        and also some models are hosted as Service 

What is the expected inference latency and throughput requirement?
          As much as minimal 

Is there a need for continual learning, fine-tuning, or feedback loops?
       Feedback loop Required

🌐 F. Integration Requirements
What third-party preprocessing service are you using (name, API type, etc.)?
             Llamaparse 

Are there any on-premise systems, identity providers, or external APIs that must be integrated?
            CRM 
            SharePoint 
            Several Interal Bank API's will be provided 

Key Details for Stack Usage and Low Level Design 
  Technical Stack We required to use for Application 
         Backend - Django REST API
         Frontend - React.js 
  For Low Level Design we required to use the Cloud Native Solution 
         Fallback Strategies 
         Caching the Response from the Chatbot 
         Storing the Response from the Chatbot - for the conversation memory 
         Scaling Usage of Computing 





--------------------------Containers-----------------------------------------------------------
                    ----Important Doubt-------
In which case we need to use the Kubernetes, 
because why Im asking is, our Application is the enterprise application, which web api applicaiton with backend(django RESTAPI) and frontend{react.js), 

I thought Kubernetes will be using, if we downloading the entire service in our system like that so that all dependencies will be packed and sharing the os , - that is the key usage right


ChatGPT said:
Great question — and it's good that you're thinking critically about whether you actually need Kubernetes. It's often overused or chosen just because it's trendy. Let me clarify when you should consider using Kubernetes, and whether your situation fits.

✅ When to Use Kubernetes
Kubernetes is primarily useful when:

You need to deploy and manage containers at scale (i.e., Dockerized microservices).

You expect to scale horizontally (multiple replicas of services for high availability and load balancing).

You need automated orchestration — health checks, rollbacks, self-healing, and zero-downtime deployments.

You want infrastructure-as-code and cloud-agnostic deployments.

You’re working in a distributed, cloud-native environment (e.g., AWS, GCP, Azure).

You want to run many services and manage them easily, including databases, queues, APIs, etc.

❓Does Your Use Case Need Kubernetes?
You said:

Enterprise application

Frontend: React.js

Backend: Django REST API

Some key questions to ask:

Are you running this on a single server or local machine?
→ Then Kubernetes is probably overkill.

Are you expecting high traffic or needing horizontal scaling (e.g., 10+ replicas of the backend)?
→ Kubernetes could help here.

Do you have multiple microservices or plan to split your system into many services?
→ Kubernetes is more useful in that case.

Are you deploying in production on the cloud, especially if multiple environments (staging, production)?
→ Kubernetes might help for better orchestration and automation.

🧱 Your Comment: "Packed with dependencies, sharing the OS"
That sounds more like Docker containers (not necessarily Kubernetes).

Docker packages your app and all its dependencies.

Kubernetes manages many Docker containers, especially in a distributed setup.

So if you just want to:

Package your Django + React app

Run it in a container

Maybe use Docker Compose locally to simulate services

👉 Docker or Docker Compose is likely enough.

🟢 Summary Recommendation
Case	Use Docker	Use Kubernetes
Local development	✅	❌ Overkill
Small-scale production	✅	❌ Optional
Multi-service cloud app, need scaling	✅	✅
Want orchestration, auto-scaling, service discovery	⚠️	✅

Would you like help deciding between Docker Compose and Kubernetes for your current setup?





You said:
You want infrastructure-as-code and cloud-agnostic deployments.

You’re working in a distributed, cloud-native environment (e.g., AWS, GCP, Azure).

Could you please explain this two points clearly, I couldn't able to understand elloborate with real world example 


ChatGPT said:
Absolutely — these are important ideas, and they can be confusing at first. Let's break them down one by one, with simple examples so you can understand exactly when they matter and how Kubernetes plays a role.

✅ 1. "Infrastructure as Code" (IaC) — What does it mean?
Meaning:
Instead of manually setting up your servers, load balancers, databases, etc., you define your infrastructure in code (YAML, JSON, etc.), so it can be versioned, reused, and automated — just like application code.

📦 Real-world example:
You want to deploy your Django backend.

Without IaC:

You SSH into a server

You install Python, Django, Nginx, Gunicorn manually

You configure and start the service manually

With IaC (e.g., using Kubernetes + YAML or Terraform):

You write a YAML file that says:

yaml
Copy
Edit
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: django-backend
spec:
  replicas: 3
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: django
        image: mycompany/django-app:latest
Kubernetes reads that and spins up 3 containers of your app, automatically.

It's repeatable — you can give this file to a teammate or use it in CI/CD.

👉 IaC makes your deployment automatic, reproducible, and easy to manage at scale.

✅ 2. Cloud-agnostic deployments in a distributed, cloud-native environment
💡 Meaning of "Cloud-agnostic":
It means: You’re not tied to one cloud vendor (e.g., AWS only).
Your app should run the same way on AWS, GCP, Azure, or even on-prem servers, because it's packaged in containers and managed by Kubernetes.

🗺 Real-world example:
Your app is built in Django + React. You run it:

This year on AWS

Next year your client wants to switch to GCP

Or you want to test it locally on your laptop first

If you:

Use Docker to package your app (e.g., in mycompany/django-app:latest)

Use Kubernetes to describe your deployment (via YAML)

Then you can run this same setup:

On AWS (EKS)

On GCP (GKE)

On Azure (AKS)

Locally using Minikube or Docker Desktop + Kubernetes

This is what we mean by cloud-agnostic and distributed.

Summary Table:
Concept	Without Kubernetes / IaC	With Kubernetes (IaC + Cloud-Agnostic)
Setup	Manual, error-prone	Declarative, repeatable
Portability	Hard to move to new cloud	Easy to run anywhere
Team collaboration	Hard to share setup	Code can be shared via Git
Scaling	Manual	Automatic with replicas
Recovery	Manual restarts	Kubernetes restarts crashed pods

Would you like a real YAML example for a Django + React app in Kubernetes to visualize it?





You said:
so basically , in kubernetes , we have master node, and worker node, so that worker node are compute resource for the Service running i.e application running 


ChatGPT said:
Exactly — you've got the core idea right. Let's expand on that just a little for clarity:

🧠 Kubernetes Architecture (Simple Breakdown)
📌 1. Master Node (Now called "Control Plane")
This is the brain of the cluster.

It doesn't run your actual applications.

It manages what should run, where it should run, and when it should restart or scale.

Components:

kube-apiserver: Entry point to the control plane (receives your deployment YAMLs).

controller-manager: Watches the cluster and makes sure the desired state is met.

scheduler: Decides which worker node should run a new Pod.

etcd: Cluster state (key-value store, like a brain memory).

Think of it as your project manager.

🖥️ 2. Worker Nodes
These are the compute machines — the servers (physical or virtual) where your app actually runs.

Each runs a set of Pods (which are containers grouped together).

Components:

kubelet: Talks to the control plane and manages pods on the node.

container runtime: Runs containers (usually Docker, containerd).

kube-proxy: Handles network communication and service discovery.

Think of these as your employees — they do the actual work.

👇 Visual Analogy:
Component	Real-World Analogy
Control Plane (Master)	Project Manager
Worker Nodes	Developers (computers doing work)
Pods	Tasks or app pieces (e.g., Django, React, DB)
kubelet	The employee's task tracker
etcd	The manager's notebook of who’s doing what

🧱 Your app in this setup:
You deploy a Django REST API (Pod).

You deploy a React frontend (Pod).

Kubernetes puts these on Worker Nodes depending on:

Resource availability

Load

Health status

✅ Summary:
Yes — Worker nodes are the compute resources where your application (Pods/Containers) actually run.
The Control Plane (Master node) just manages and tells them what to run and when.

Would you like a visual diagram or architecture YAML to see how Django + React would be deployed across nodes?





You said:
so if Im deploying this as IaC, then worker node are going to deploy as IaC, to the serive , i.e application


ChatGPT said:
You're on the right track! When deploying with Infrastructure as Code (IaC) using Kubernetes, you're essentially defining how your worker nodes (and everything else) should be managed and deployed in code, but the worker nodes themselves are typically not defined directly by you in your application code. Instead, Kubernetes handles the worker nodes, and you specify how applications (e.g., Django and React) should be deployed on them.

Let me clarify the flow in a real-world IaC setup:

Key Concepts:
Kubernetes Cluster Management:

The master node (control plane) is where Kubernetes runs, and it controls the worker nodes.

The worker nodes are where your containers (Pods) actually run.

You Define the "Desired State" in Code:

With Kubernetes YAML files (or Helm charts), you define the resources that Kubernetes will manage for you:

How many replicas of your Django app should be running.

What ports to expose.

The resources (CPU, memory) needed.

How to communicate between the backend (Django) and the frontend (React).

You don’t need to define the worker nodes directly. The worker nodes are part of the Kubernetes infrastructure (and are generally managed by your cloud provider or Kubernetes service).

You define the pods and services for your apps (Django, React), and Kubernetes will decide where to place them on the worker nodes based on resource availability, scaling needs, and other factors.

🏗️ Example: Deploying Your Django and React App using IaC
You write Kubernetes YAML files to describe the setup:

1. Django Backend (Pod and Deployment):
This YAML describes how your Django API app should be deployed:

yaml
Copy
Edit
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: django-backend
spec:
  replicas: 3  # Number of backend instances (pods)
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: django-backend
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: django-backend
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: django
          image: mycompany/django-app:latest  # Docker image
          ports:
            - containerPort: 8000  # Port your Django app runs on
2. React Frontend (Pod and Deployment):
Similarly, you describe the React frontend:

yaml
Copy
Edit
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: react-frontend
spec:
  replicas: 2  # Number of frontend instances (pods)
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: react-frontend
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: react-frontend
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: react
          image: mycompany/react-app:latest  # Docker image
          ports:
            - containerPort: 80  # Port your React app runs on
3. Service to Expose Your Apps (Frontend & Backend):
Kubernetes Services expose your Pods to the outside world. You define them in IaC:

yaml
Copy
Edit
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: django-service
spec:
  selector:
    app: django-backend
  ports:
    - protocol: TCP
      port: 80  # Exposing port 80 externally
      targetPort: 8000  # Expose Django backend on 8000
  type: LoadBalancer  # Expose service to the internet
yaml
Copy
Edit
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: react-service
spec:
  selector:
    app: react-frontend
  ports:
    - protocol: TCP
      port: 80
      targetPort: 80  # React app exposed on port 80
  type: LoadBalancer
🌐 What Happens Under the Hood:
Deployment: You run kubectl apply -f <deployment-yaml> to deploy these resources.

Kubernetes will schedule the Pods for Django and React on available worker nodes in your cluster.

Kubernetes manages scaling: if you need more replicas (to handle higher traffic), you can adjust the replicas in the YAML file and Kubernetes will scale accordingly.

Worker Node Management:

You don't manually manage the worker nodes with your IaC YAMLs.

You might choose a cloud provider like AWS, GCP, or Azure to handle your Kubernetes cluster, and they will provide you with worker nodes.

For example, if you're on AWS, you can use Amazon EKS (Elastic Kubernetes Service), and AWS will manage the worker nodes for you.

Kubernetes will automatically distribute your applications (Pods) to the available worker nodes in the cluster.

🧱 Simplified Explanation:
You (as the developer) define your application's requirements (e.g., Django backend and React frontend) in YAML files using IaC.

Kubernetes manages the worker nodes and decides where your application runs.

You never directly define or manage worker nodes in your IaC files — you only define what should run and how it should behave (like replicas, services, resource limits).

🔑 The Key Point:
Kubernetes handles the worker nodes (compute resources), and you specify your app’s resources (Pods, Services, etc.). It abstracts the complexity of managing infrastructure and allows you to focus on deploying your application.

Does that make sense? Would you like to dive deeper into any part of this? Or maybe see how this applies to scaling your application?






         













