Refered Links
OuterLoop Agent  - https://www.humanlayer.dev/docs/core/outer-loop-agents
AutoGPT - Automate MultiStep Projects and Complex Workflows in AI Agents based on OpenAI's GPT-4 

This will include 
architectural improvements, 
autonomy, 
planning capabilities, 
real-world deployment, 
interoperability, 
learning behavior.

Agentic AI builds on LLM to create autonomous systems that reason, act and collaborate with minimal human intervention.

Experts distinguish generations of LLM-driven agents by how autonomously they operate. 
Gen2 "Agentic Assistants" are human-driven agents - Frameworks that integrate LLMs with tools and chain-of-thought to carry out complex tasks.
                                                  - Always initiated by the user command 
Gen3 "Autonomous Agents" inhabit an outer loop environment: they no longer wait for a human to start each task. 
                                                            Proactively pursue goals using planning, tools and even interaction with humans as needed 


Gen3 Agents thus extend Gen2 capabilities with unsupervised autonomy, long-term Orchestration, ongoing learning. 
Gen3 Agents as no longer human-initiated entities that schedule and mange their own tasks using multiple tools 

Gen2 vs Gen3 
Architecture 
Autonomy 
Memory
Planning
Tool Use
Learning
Decision-making 
Coordination

Gen2 - 
AutoGPT - Multi Agent Framework 
AgentGPT = Autonomous assistants [LangGraph, AutoGen, CrewAI]
Gen3 
Emerging Frontier, exemplified by systems that run continuously (AWS Bedrock Agents)
and can act outside direct human prompting 

**Outer Loop Agents
The future of autonomous AI agents
OpenAI's RealTime API is a step towards outer-loop agents 
1.Between require_approval and human_as_tool
2.HumanLayer is built to empower the next generation of AI agents - Autonomous Agents, but it’s just a piece of the puzzle
3.


Gen 1: Chat - human-initiated question / response interface
Gen 2: Agentic Assistants - frameworks drive prompt routing, tool calling, chain of thought, and context window management to get much more reliability and functionality. Most workflows are initiated by humans in single-shot “here’s a task, go do it” or rolling chat interfaces.
Gen 3: Autonomous Agents - no longer human initiated, agents will live in the “outer loop” driving toward their goals using various tools and functions. Human/Agent communication is Agent-initiated rather than human-initiated.
       In order for these agents to perform actual useful work, they’ll need human oversight for sensitive operations.

4.These agents will require ways to contact one or more humans across various channels including chat, email, sms, and more.

--------
While early versions of these agents may technically be “human initiated” in that they get kicked off on a regular schedule by e.g. a cron or similar
1. the best ones will be managing their own scheduling and costs.
2.This will require toolkits for inspecting costs and something akin to sleep_until
3.They’ll need to run in orchestration frameworks that can durably serialize and resume agent workflows across tool calls that might not return for hours or days
4. These frameworks will need to support context window management by a “manager LLM” and enable agents to fork sub-chains to handle specialized tasks and roles.

But that’s really just scratching the surface of what’s possible with autonomous agents.
