2023 - 2024 - factor of 12 - 1200% of cyberattack increased 

Phishing Attack 
Cloning the voice 
Cloning the Image 
Cloning the face 


Scanning the websites and Generating the Report 
Database 


- LLMs in Detection Engineering
  -----------------------------
A curated collection of Large Language Model (LLM) resources focused on automating the creation, validation, and optimization of security detection rules.
Awesome GenAI CyberHub! 


Problem Statement
-----------------
Exploring how LLMs are being utilized to translate threat intelligence or attack patterns into effective detection logic (e.g., Sigma, YARA, Snort rules), refine existing detections, and reduce false positives. Here, you'll find links to relevant articles, research papers, tools, datasets, and proof-of-concepts.



Hackathon Links 
---------------
https://arxiv.org/pdf/2408.08902v1 -  Audit-LLM: Multi-Agent Collaboration for Log-based Insider Threat Detection
https://arxiv.org/pdf/2407.05194 - LLMCloudHunter: Harnessing LLMs for Automated Extraction of Detection Rules from Cloud-Based CTI
                                 - Presents an architecture merging SOC technologies (SIEM/XDR, SOAR, BAS, ChatGPT) into a detection engineering CI/CD pipeline for automatic creation, testing, and deployment of detection analytics.
https://static.rainfocus.com/rsac/us24/sess/1696325909809001qy71/finalwebsite/2024_USA24_HTA-M03_01_The-Always-On-Purple-Team-An-Automated-CICD-for-Detection-Engineering_1713983129840001qmBZ.pdf
https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.09385 - APT-LLM: Embedding-Based Anomaly Detection of Cyber Advanced Persistent Threats Using Large Language Models
https://socradar.io/writing-yara-rules-with-custom-gpts-and-socradar-platform/ - YARA Rules 


LLMs in Detection Engineering.
This field explores how Large Language Models (LLMs) can be used to automate and enhance threat detection by translating natural language threat intelligence into machine-readable detection rules like Sigma, YARA, and Snort.

1.LLMs in Cybersecurity
Use: LLMs (like GPT-4, Claude, etc.) can read, understand, and generate human-like text.
In Detection Engineering:
Understand threat reports (written in English).
Generate detection logic based on known behaviors (in YAML, JSON, Regex, etc.).
Refine detections by reducing false positives.
Map textual intelligence to structured rules for SIEMs, IDS/IPS, EDR, XDR, etc

2. Detection Engineering
This is the practice of creating and fine-tuning logic or rules to detect malicious activities across logs, network traffic, or system behaviors.

3. Detection Rule Formats
Here are 3 important rule formats LLMs can help generate:
Format	Description	Target Tool
Sigma	Generic signature format for logs	SIEMs (e.g., Splunk, ELK)
YARA	Pattern-matching rules to identify malware	File scanning (e.g., VirusTotal)
Snort	Rules for network intrusion detection	IDS/IPS (e.g., Snort, Suricata)

malware - software that is specifically designed to disrupt, damage, or gain unauthorized access to a computer system.
A brute force attack is a hacking method that uses trial and error to crack passwords, login credentials, and encryption keys
Ransomware - a type of malicious software designed to block access to a computer system until a sum of money is paid:



Rules Going to Generate 
Format	Description	Target Tool
Sigma	Generic signature format for logs	SIEMs (e.g., Splunk, ELK)
YARA	Pattern-matching rules to identify malware	File scanning (e.g., VirusTotal)
Snort	Rules for network intrusion detection	IDS/IPS (e.g., Snort, Suricata)


Monitoring the IT Infrastructure 
SIEMs, IDS/IPS, EDR, XDR
SIEM (Security Information and Event Management)
Purpose: Centralized logging, correlation, and alerting


Collects logs from multiple systems: firewalls, servers, applications, etc.
Correlates events to identify suspicious patterns (e.g., brute-force attempts).
Alerts analysts via dashboards or notifications.
Often used for compliance, auditing, and incident response.

Examples:
Splunk
IBM QRadar
Elastic SIEM
Microsoft Sentinel
LogRhythm

IDS/IPS (Intrusion Detection/Prevention System)
Purpose: Monitor network traffic for malicious activity
IDS (Detection): Observes and alerts if suspicious activity is detected
IPS (Prevention): Does what IDS does but also blocks or prevents that activity
🛡️ Works at the network level (between firewall and internal network)

Examples:
Snort (IDS)
Suricata
Cisco Firepower (IPS)
Palo Alto Threat Prevention


EDR (Endpoint Detection and Response)
Purpose: Detect threats on endpoints (laptops, servers)
Monitors processes, file activity, memory, and network connections on endpoints
Detects malware, ransomware, and lateral movement
Provides capabilities for forensic analysis and remote response (e.g., kill process, isolate device)
Think of it as antivirus on steroids, with real-time response and visibility.

Examples:
CrowdStrike Falcon
SentinelOne
Microsoft Defender for Endpoint
Sophos Intercept X

XDR (Extended Detection and Response)
Purpose: Unified threat detection across multiple security layers (endpoint, network, email, cloud)
Builds on EDR by integrating other data sources (SIEM, network sensors, cloud logs)
Correlates detections across different vectors: endpoint + email + identity + cloud
Reduces alert fatigue and increases detection accuracy


SIEM - IDS - IPS - EDR - XDR 
Think of it as EDR + SIEM + NDR + Email Security, but integrated into one system

Examples:
Palo Alto Cortex XDR
Microsoft Defender XDR
Trend Micro Vision One
CrowdStrike Falcon XDR


Summary Table:
Tool	Focus Area	Primary Role	Scope
SIEM	Logs & Events	Aggregation, Correlation, Alerting	Organization-wide
IDS	Network	Detect malicious traffic	Network perimeter
IPS	Network	Detect & block malicious traffic	Network perimeter
EDR	Endpoints	Detect and respond to endpoint threats	Devices (PCs, servers)
XDR	Multi-layer	Integrated, correlated detection	Endpoint + Network + Email + Cloud

Let me know if you want diagrams or how these integrate in a Security Operations Center (SOC) or an AI-powered threat detection pipeline.


---------
Examples of Detection Rule Types:
1. Sigma Rules (for SIEMs)
Purpose: Detect suspicious events in log files (Windows logs, application logs, etc.
Format: YAML (human-readable, tool-agnostic)
Think of it as: The "Snort for logs"
Can be converted to Splunk, QRadar, Elastic, etc.


detection:
  selection:
    EventID: 4624
    LogonType: 3
    TargetUserName: "admin"
Detects remote logins with an admin username.

2.YARA Rules (for file/memory inspection)
Purpose: Identify malware in files, memory, or binaries using pattern matching
Format: Rule-based with string or byte patterns
Think of it as: Antivirus signature language on steroids

rule SuspiciousExecutable
{
  strings:
    $a = "malicious_code"
  condition:
    $a
}


Detects files containing the string "malicious_code"


3.Snort Rules (for network traffic)
Purpose: Detect (and block) network-based attacks
Format: Custom rule syntax (used by Snort/Suricata)
Think of it as: Firewall rules with deeper packet inspection

alert tcp any any -> any 80 (msg:"Possible SQL Injection"; content:"SELECT"; nocase;)

Alerts if a TCP packet on port 80 contains the word “SELECT” (a common SQL command).


Rule Type	Used By	Targets	Example Tool	Language Format
Sigma	SIEMs	Logs	Splunk, Sentinel, etc.	YAML
YARA	EDR, XDR, AV	Files, Memory	CrowdStrike, VirusTotal	YARA syntax
Snort	IDS/IPS	Network Traffic	Snort, Suricata	Snort syntax

-----------------------
Rules are created and updated regularly, but:
1.Initial rules are created:
By security analysts based on threat intelligence.
Or provided by vendors (like Microsoft, CrowdStrike, Palo Alto, etc.).

2.Rules are refined over time:
To reduce false positives (e.g., a rule that triggers too often on legit activity).
To adapt to evolving threats (e.g., attackers changing tactics).

3.Rules are updated in 3 ways:
Manually — by security teams, often during threat hunting or incident response.
Automatically — through vendor updates (like antivirus definitions).
Programmatically — using AI/ML or automation systems that generate or tune rules based on behavior (example: LLMs writing Sigma rules).

A detection rule to flag "PowerShell execution with base64-encoded payload" may start simple:
CommandLine: '*powershell* -EncodedCommand*'
But it might be refined later to avoid false positives:
CommandLine: '*powershell* -EncodedCommand*'
AND NOT ProcessName: 'legit_script.ps1'


Activity	Frequency	Who Does It
Rule creation	Initially + new threat	Analysts / Vendors
Rule tuning (refinement)	Ongoing	Analysts / ML models
Rule updates	Weekly to monthly	Vendors / Security Teams
Auto-rule generation (AI)	Growing trend	AI agents / Copilots

-------------------
Types of Threat Intelligence:
Type	Description	Example
Indicators of Compromise (IOCs)	Data like IPs, file hashes, URLs used in attacks	Malicious IP: 45.76.123.4
File hash: d41d8cd9...
Tactics, Techniques & Procedures (TTPs)	How attackers operate (MITRE ATT&CK)	T1059 (Command & Scripting Interpreter)
Campaign Intelligence	Info about ongoing or past attack campaigns	"Lazarus Group targets banks with spear phishing"
Threat actor profiles	Info about who is attacking, their motives, capabilities	“APT29 is a state-sponsored group targeting govt orgs”


Example: How Threat Intel Drives Rule Creation
Threat Intel Received:
"A new ransomware uses PowerShell to download payload from evil.com, stores it in %AppData%, and runs it silently."

Sigma Rule Based on That Intel:
detection:
  selection:
    CommandLine|contains: 'powershell'
    CommandLine|contains: 'evil.com'
    CommandLine|contains: 'AppData'
    CommandLine|contains: '-WindowStyle Hidden'
 This rule is crafted based on known behavior and artifacts of the malware.

"Based on threat intel" = Writing or updating rules using real, actionable information about cyber threats — to detect what attackers are doing in the wild.



Natural Language Threat Intelligence 

"A recent phishing campaign delivers a ZIP file containing a malicious Excel macro that downloads a remote access trojan."


"CVE-2024-1234 is being exploited in the wild by APT28 using spear-phishing emails with .doc attachments."

"New IcedID sample drops via OneDrive links, hashes: ab12..., domain: hxxp://malicious[.]site"

Most real-world threat intel starts as natural language
Security teams must convert this into:
Structured formats (like Sigma, YARA, STIX)
Detection rules
Indicators of compromise (IOCs)

Eg: Of Conversion 
"Drops a DLL in temp folder and executes with rundll32."

A security analyst reads a threat report saying:
“The attacker uses mshta.exe to execute a malicious script hosted on Pastebin.”

Then creates a Sigma rule like:
CommandLine|contains: "mshta.exe"
CommandLine|contains: "pastebin"


Term	Meaning
Natural Language Threat Intel	Human-written threat information (blogs, reports, tweets)
Use	Source for creating detection rules, hunting queries
Challenge	Needs to be parsed/extracted into structured formats
Solution	NLP, LLMs, AI-based threat parsing tools

--------------------
A. Translate Threat Intelligence to Detection Logic
Input: A threat report says: "The malware creates a registry key HKCU\Software\EvilApp and spawns PowerShell."

LLM Output: Automatically generate a Sigma rule to detect that in Windows Event Logs.


B. Rule Refinement & Tuning
Remove overly broad matches.
Add better context to reduce false positives.
For example, filtering out admin tools in expected locations.

C. Rule Explanation
Explaining a complex YARA or Sigma rule in plain English, aiding collaboration between analysts and engineers.

D. Rule Translation Between Formats
Convert a Sigma rule into Splunk SPL, or from YARA to Snort (or vice versa).

SigmAI	LLM-based tool to convert threat intel into Sigma rules.
HexaHunter	Uses GPT to auto-generate detection rules from MITRE ATT&CK descriptions.
GPT-4 + Jupyter Notebook	Many PoCs exist where LLMs are prompted with threat reports and asked to output YAML detection rules.
CybersecPromptHub	Community-shared prompts for threat detection, malware analysis, etc.
YARA-GPT	Converts malware behavior descriptions into YARA rules using GPT.


APT reports (Mandiant, CrowdStrike, etc.)	Input data for LLMs to learn threat behavior
Sigma Rule GitHub Repos	Fine-tune or evaluate LLMs on known detection logic
MITRE ATT&CK	A knowledge base of adversary tactics and techniques
Open Threat Exchange (OTX)	Community-curated threat intelligence
PapersWithCode: LLMs in Cybersecurity	Track latest LLM-based security papers


Term	Meaning
False Positive	Benign activity flagged as malicious
Detection Logic	Rules/scripts to detect attacks
Threat Intelligence	Info about threats, tactics, tools used by attackers
MITRE ATT&CK	Matrix of adversary behaviors categorized into tactics & techniques
TTPs	Tactics, Techniques, Procedures – behavioral patterns of attackers
Indicators of Compromise (IoCs)	Artifacts like IPs, hashes, URLs, etc.
SIEM	Security Information and Event Management – collects and analyzes logs
EDR/XDR	Endpoint/Extended Detection and Response tools


Input Threat Intel (e.g., “Malware drops file in AppData and opens a reverse shell”)
LLM Reads + Analyzes → Extract relevant TTPs: File creation, reverse shell, etc.
LLM Outputs:
Sigma Rule to detect Windows logs (Event ID 11 + PowerShell usage)
YARA Rule to scan for malware binary
English summary or SPL/KQL queries


Companies, 
tools,
security systems,
LLMs are being used in Security Operations Centers (SOCs) and Threat Detection Platforms in the following places:
Stage	Where LLM Is Used	Examples
A. Threat Report Ingestion	Automatically read PDF/HTML threat intel reports and extract relevant behavior patterns.	Mandiant, MITRE, CrowdStrike reports processed via LLMs
B. Rule Generation	Translate extracted behaviors into detection rules (Sigma, YARA, Snort).	Used in SIEM platforms like Splunk, Microsoft Sentinel
C. Rule Optimization	Refine existing rules to reduce noise or false positives.	Chronicle Security (Google), Elastic SIEM
D. Alert Enrichment	Explain why an alert fired using LLMs for faster triage.	SentinelOne, Palo Alto XSIAM
E. Rule Review or Translation	Translate from English ↔ Sigma ↔ YARA ↔ Snort	Github PoCs, security tools (like SigmAI, Elastic ML)



---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Monitoring the IT Infrastructure 
LLM's in Detection Engineering | AI Powered threat Detection Pipeline 
SIEM - IDS - IPS - EDR - XDR

Detection rules are pre-defined logic patterns or conditions used by cybersecurity tools to identify malicious behavior, threats, or anomalies in systems, networks, or files
They help tools like SIEM, IDS/IPS, EDR, and XDR to decide what is suspicious or malicious — kind of like “if-this-then-that” logic for threats.

To create or test your own rule examples using real logs, files, or packet data.

Creating or updating detection rules using information about real-world cyber threats — collected from internal or external sources.
Threat Intelligence (Threat Intel) is data about attackers, their tools, techniques, and behaviors — that helps defenders anticipate and detect attacks.

To generate detection rules from raw threat reports, or map intel to the MITRE ATT&CK framework.

The Adversarial Tactics, Techniques, and Common Knowledge or MITRE ATT&CK is a guideline for classifying and describing cyberattacks and intrusions. It was created by the Mitre Corporation and released in 2013
Knowledge base of cyber threats and tactics maintained by the Mitre Corporation


Splunk
IBM QRadar
Elastic SIEM
Microsoft Sentinel
LogRhythm
Snort (IDS)
Suricata
Cisco Firepower (IPS)
Palo Alto Threat Prevention
CrowdStrike Falcon
SentinelOne
Microsoft Defender for Endpoint
Sophos Intercept X
Palo Alto Cortex XDR
Microsoft Defender XDR
Trend Micro Vision One
CrowdStrike Falcon XDR


🔍 SIEM Tools
Splunk: A powerful log analysis and SIEM tool that helps visualize and investigate security events.

IBM QRadar: An enterprise-grade SIEM that detects threats by analyzing logs, flows, and user behavior.

Elastic SIEM: An open-source SIEM built on the Elastic Stack for real-time threat detection and analytics.

Microsoft Sentinel: A cloud-native SIEM from Azure for threat detection, investigation, and automated response.

LogRhythm: A SIEM platform offering threat detection, compliance, and incident response with analytics.

🛡️ IDS/IPS Tools
Snort (IDS): An open-source Intrusion Detection System that monitors network traffic for suspicious activity.
Suricata: A high-performance IDS/IPS engine with built-in multi-threading and protocol detection.
Cisco Firepower (IPS): A Cisco network security appliance with real-time threat prevention capabilities.
Palo Alto Threat Prevention: An IPS solution integrated into Palo Alto firewalls for blocking exploits and malware.

💻 EDR Tools
CrowdStrike Falcon: A cloud-based EDR that provides AI-driven threat detection and endpoint protection.
SentinelOne: An autonomous EDR solution that uses AI to detect, prevent, and respond to threats on endpoints.
Microsoft Defender for Endpoint: A Microsoft EDR solution offering advanced threat detection and investigation on Windows devices.
Sophos Intercept X: An endpoint protection platform with deep learning and anti-ransomware capabilities.

🌐 XDR Tools
Palo Alto Cortex XDR: A unified XDR platform that correlates endpoint, network, and cloud data to detect complex threats.
Microsoft Defender XDR: Microsoft’s integrated XDR solution combining endpoint, email, identity, and cloud threat protection.
Trend Micro Vision One: A centralized XDR platform offering visibility and correlation across security layers.
CrowdStrike Falcon XDR: An extended version of Falcon EDR that integrates multiple sources for unified threat detection and response.


Value If Right 
Probability of Success
Cost If it is wrong

Saves time for detection engineers.
Automates tedious rule-writing.
Helps scale to new threats quickly.
Reduces detection gaps and alert fatigue.


Use Case 1: SOC Analyst Augmentation
Company: Elastic SIEM + OpenAI
Problem: Analysts spend time reading long threat reports and writing Sigma rules manually.
LLM Use:

The system ingests an APT report (e.g., Lazarus Group behavior).
GPT-4 processes the text and outputs a Sigma rule matching Windows Event ID and command-line arguments.
Analyst reviews and deploys it to Elastic Stack.
⏱️ Impact: Rule generation time cut from 3 hours to 15 minutes.


Use Case 2: Alert Explanation in Plain English
Company: Microsoft Sentinel + Copilot for Security
Problem: Junior analysts struggle to understand why an alert was triggered.
LLM Use:
When a detection fires (e.g., suspicious PowerShell download), GPT-4 explains:
"This alert was triggered because a PowerShell process downloaded a file from a known malicious domain. This behavior is associated with malware staging."
🧠 Impact: Easier triage, faster response.

Use Case 3: Sigma/YARA Rule Generation from Threat Intel
Tool: SigmAI (Open Source)
Problem: SOCs need to convert intelligence from blog posts and reports into usable detection logic.
LLM Use:
Analyst inputs:
"The malware modifies registry HKCU\Software\BadApp and runs cmd.exe /c whoami."
LLM generates:
A Sigma rule matching event logs for registry change + command execution.
A YARA rule for file with matching strings.

Use Case 4: Email Phishing Detection
Company: Abnormal Security
Problem: Phishing emails look legitimate and evade traditional filters.
LLM Use:
LLMs analyze the tone, intent, and urgency in email content.
Detect if it tries to impersonate the CEO or asks for wire transfers.
Alerts the security team or quarantines the email.
📈 Impact: Lower false negatives in business email compromise (BEC) attacks

Use Case 5: Auto-Generation of Firewall/IDS Rules
PoC: Research teams use GPT-4 to generate Snort or Suricata rules from observed network behavior:
Input: “The malware uses port 4444 to establish reverse TCP shell.”
Output:
alert tcp any any -> any 4444 (msg:"Reverse shell activity"; sid:1000001;)

Common Systems Where Detection Happens
------------------------------------------
System Type	Examples	What LLMs Assist With
SIEM (Security Information and Event Management)	Splunk, Sentinel, ELK, IBM QRadar	Write/optimize detection logic (Sigma)
EDR/XDR (Endpoint / Extended Detection & Response)	CrowdStrike Falcon, SentinelOne, Cortex XDR	Enrich alerts, generate detection patterns
IDS/IPS (Intrusion Detection/Prevention Systems)	Snort, Suricata, Zeek	Generate Snort rules, explain traffic anomalies
Threat Intel Platform	MISP, Recorded Future, Anomali	Extract behavior, auto-convert to rules
Email Security	Abnormal, Proofpoint, Mimecast	Phishing detection using NLP/LLMs


Summary of Benefits from LLMs in Real World
Benefit	Impact
🛠️ Automate Detection Rule Creation	Saves hours of manual work
🔁 Translate Intel to Logic	Bridges gap between human-readable reports and system-readable rules
🎯 Reduce False Positives	Tuned logic improves SOC performance
📖 Explain Alerts	Faster triage and training
🤝 Democratize Threat Detection	Enables junior analysts to contribute




Cyber with AITools 
Value if Right 
What is the ROI 
Design Pattern - Like Workflow or in the Middle 
   Agentic Design Pattern, Using Different Agent Pattern
 Enterprise like settings we need more controllability, more predictability 
 then you get just by prompting 
Using the LangGraph Framework 




What I need to put in the ppt 
=============================
LLM in Detection Engineering 
Cyber Security Concepts
already we have open source tool built on top of the tools 
Tool itself have in-built AI Capabilities 
What we are trying to achieve in this 
    Threat Report Ingestion
    Rule Generation
    Rule Optimization
    Alert Enrichment
    Rule Review or Translation
    Upcoming Future Detection Mock Up Drill, hackers may evolve - before they evolve we need to think like hacker
    How I'm going to handle the PII data, 
    Exactly how PII data is handling in the production 


      Automation 
      Reducing time
      Enhancing the work ease with AI - Explainability 
      Understandability 
      Enhancing the Security 
      Improved SOC Performance - Tuned Logic will improve the performance 
      Protecting the Software system from AI is very important, 
Enterprise Level Settings -
   Mid Level Enterprise - 40 - 50 Tools 
   Large Level Enterpise  - 400+ Tools 
  for enterprise level settings - how my application is going to act 
Modern UI/UX for the AI Agents - like workflow, Agentic behaviour 

Agents will run in the background  - as a workflow as well as the agentic manner 
Need UX for interacting with this agents 
Future is forward to the async agent --> will ping when they need any help 



Architecture Styles: Microservices, Monolith, Event-Driven, Domain-Driven Design.  - What Software Design Pattern will be achieveable 
                     Modular Monolith Software 












SOC Jaravis
-----------
jarvis - Just A Rather Very Intelligent System
Fictional AI assistant created by Tony Stark (Iron Man) in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU).
Functions like a super-advanced AI butler—managing Stark's suits, home systems, and tactical operations.
Eventually evolves into the character Vision in the MCU.

Jarvis.ai (now Jasper): An AI-powered writing assistant for marketing content, blog posts, etc.
Jarvis for Home Automation: Various open-source or commercial smart home projects named “Jarvis.”



Tool Name
SigmAI
Elastic ML
HexaHunter
YARA-GPT 
CybersecPromptHub
Sigma Rule GitHub Repos - Fine-tune or evaluate LLMs on known detection logic
MITRE ATT&CK - A knowledge base of adversary tactics and techniques
Open Threat Exchange (OTX) - Community-curated threat intelligence
APT reports (Mandiant, CrowdStrike, etc.)







